Publisher deals | Bodleian Libraries
Pause animated content
Skip to main content
Publish a journal article open access
Article processing charges (APCs)
Block grants
Publisher deals
Publisher deals
Publisher deals are open access agreements between the University of Oxford and individual publishers. They enable an article in an otherwise subscription-only journal to be made open access for a publishing fee (hybrid open access). Some deals also fund publishing in fully open access journals (gold open access).
If you use one of these deals, the University (specifically, your academic division) will pay the publishing costs on your behalf.
Publisher deals are sometimes called 'read and publish deals' or 'transformative agreements'.
If you don't receive funding for your research from a funding body, the preferred open access route is to
publish for free in a 'diamond journal'
.
Criteria
To qualify for any of the deals below, you must:
be publishing a journal article (these deals cannot be used for other research outputs)
be a corresponding author of the accepted article
use your Oxford University email address (@ox.ac.uk) when submitting articles to the journal (so that publishers can identify you as Oxford-affiliated)
select a CC BY publication licence when prompted
Charges
When your article is accepted, the publisher will automatically charge it to the deal with the University if you have submitted with your Oxford University email address. The publisher will contact both you and the University separately to confirm this. You will not receive an invoice from the publisher; if you do, please contact us:
oapayments@bodleian.ox.ac.uk
.
If you pay individually for a journal covered by the University's read and publish deals, you will not be reimbursed.
Most publisher deals do not include additional publication costs such as page or colour charges. If you are unsure about what is covered, please contact us:
oapayments@bodleian.ox.ac.uk
.
Find publisher deals
Use the table to search
by publisher
for specific publisher deals and details.
You can find the publisher of a journal on the journal's website (in the header, footer or 'About' section) or by using the
Open Policy Finder
(publisher listed just below the journal's name). If you are still uncertain,
contact us
for help.
These deals can be subject to change. Information last amended: 12 January 2026
Publisher
Deal details
American Chemical Society (ACS)
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish open access in all ACS journals, both hybrid and fully open access.
American Institute of Physics (AIP)
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish an agreed number of articles open access in any hybrid subscription titles. AIP’s open access journals (
AIP Advances
,
APL Bioengineering
,
APL Materials
,
APL Photonics
,
Structural Dynamics
and
Matter and Radiation at Extremes
) are not included in the deal.
American Meteorological Society (AMS)
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles in all hybrid and open access titles.
American Physical Society (APS)
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish open access in all hybrid APS journals. All original research and review outputs are covered. Gold or pure open access journals are not included.
American Physiological Society (APS)
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles 'gold' open access in open access journals.
Corresponding authors of eligible articles will be offered
a one-year APS membership
to the Society, free of charge (new members only).
American Psychological Association (APA) / Hogrefe Collection
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles in 87 hybrid APA titles and 15 hybrid Hogrefe titles. Open access Hogrefe journals receive a 25% discount on article processing charges (APCs).
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)
This agreement allows Oxford corresponding authors to publish open access in ASME’s hybrid (subscription-based) journals and the fully open access ASME Open Journal of Engineering.
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
The ACM deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish open access in all gold and hybrid ACM journals. Research articles and conference proceedings are covered.
Bioscientifica
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles 'gold' open access in hybrid journals. Authors publishing in fully open access journals should apply for open access support via the usual process.
BMJ
This deal covers article processing charges (APCs) for eligible funded* original research articles published in BMJ’s Standard Collection of subscription-based journals. BMJ will automatically refer University of Oxford authors to the institutional dashboard.
Find out more information
.
*UKRI, Wellcome Trust, British Heart Foundation, Blood Cancer UK, Cancer Research UK, Parkinson’s UK, Versus Arthritis.
Brill
This Jisc publisher agreement allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles open access at no extra cost in all Brill journals (329 titles including 24 fully open access).
Brill's information for authors
Bristol University Press (includes Policy Press)
This agreement allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles 'gold' open access in hybrid journals including Policy Press journals.
Cambridge University Press (CUP)
The transformative agreement provides access to over 400 journals with unlimited publishing in eligible titles.
Open access publishing covered under this read and publish agreement includes: research, review articles and rapid communications (RRR), plus brief report and case reports article types, which are often linked to research articles.
Non-eligible articles include: abstracts, addendums, article commentary, book reviews, books received, calendars, collections, commentaries, contents, correction, corrigendum, discussion, editorial, erratum, in brief, introduction, letter, meeting report, news, obituary, oration, product review, reply, retraction.
This agreement allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish in hybrid and gold journals.
Check if your journal is eligible
.
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles 'gold' open access in hybrid journals. Authors publishing in fully open access journals should apply for open access support via the usual process.
Company of Biologists
This Jisc publisher deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles open access at no extra cost in the Company of Biologists' three subscription (hybrid) journals:
Development
,
Journal of Cell Science
,
Journal of Experimental Biology
.
Fully open access journals are not covered. Authors still have to pay article processing charges (APCs) to publish in
Disease Models & Mechanisms
and
Biology Open
.
Company of Biologists publisher agreement
De Gruyter
This deal covers open access publication in all core hybrid and pure open access titles.
Elsevier
This deal covers open access publication for University of Oxford corresponding authors in most hybrid journals in Elsevier, Cell Press and The Lancet collections (some exceptions apply). Fully gold article processing charges (APCs) are eligible for a 15% discount.
See the list of participating journals
.
European Respiratory Society (ERS)
This Jisc publisher deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles in
European Respiratory Journal
,
ERJ Open Research
and
European Respiratory Review
.
Geological Society
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles 'gold' open access in hybrid journals. Authors publishing in fully open access journals should apply for open access support via the usual process.
Geological Society Read and Publish Agreement
.
Institute of Physics Publishing (IoP)
This Jisc publisher deal allows open access publishing for University of Oxford corresponding authors in 44 of IoP’s subscription (hybrid) and selected open access journals, without barriers or charges to authors.
More details are available on the
IoP Publishing website
.
IWA Publishing (International Water Association)
This agreement allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles 'gold' open access. See their
website
for a full list of titles.
John Benjamins
This Jisc publisher deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles in John Benjamins journals.
Journal of Medical Internet Research (JMIR)
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish open access in JMIR journals.
Under this agreement, article publication charges (APCs) in any JMIR Publications journal will be covered, including any research protocols or methodologies.
During submission authors should state their affiliation, use their Oxford (ox.ac.uk) email and state in their cover letter: “Requesting APC waiver through the Oxford-JMIR unlimited OA deal” to assist with processing.
Microbiology Society
This Jisc publisher deal allows unlimited open access publishing of research and review articles for University of Oxford corresponding authors in all Microbiology Society journals: four subscription (‘hybrid’) and two fully open access journals,
Access Microbiology
,
International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology
,
Journal of General Virology
,
Journal of Medical Microbiology
,
Microbial Genomics
and
Microbiology
.
Microbiology Society Read and Publish Agreement
.
Optica
This agreement allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles in hybrid and fully open access journals.
Oxford University Press (OUP)
This agreement allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles and review articles 'gold' open access in over 400 hybrid and fully open access journals. OUP will ask the author to select ‘UK Institutions (Jisc affiliated)’ when completing the online licensing/payment process.
For more details see the
Oxford University Press page
.
Portland Press/Biochemical Society
This Jisc read and publish agreement allows unlimited open access publishing of research and review articles for University of Oxford corresponding authors in all Portland Press journals: five subscription (‘hybrid’) and two fully open access journals:
Biochemical Journal
,
Biochemical Society Transactions
,
Bioscience Reports
,
Clinical Science
,
Essays in Biochemistry
,
Emerging Topics in Life Sciences
and
Neuronal Signalling
.
Portland Press publisher deal
Radiological Society of North America (RSNA)
This agreement allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles in Radiology and RadioGraphics.
Rockefeller University Press
This Jisc publisher deal allows unlimited open access publishing of research articles for University of Oxford corresponding authors.
Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP)
The agreement entitles University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish open access in the British Journal of General Practice and BJGP Open.
Royal Society
The agreement entitles University of Oxford authors to publish open access in Royal Society titles.
Further information is available from the
Royal Society
.
Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC)
This deal allows open access publishing for University of Oxford corresponding authors in the Royal Society of Chemistry’s hybrid (subscription) journals.
A 15% discount applies on the open access publication fee for articles above the cap and for articles in any of RSC’s fully open access journals.
Further details:
Read and Publish scheme (rsc.org)
SAGE
This Jisc publisher deal allows unlimited open access publishing of research and review articles for University of Oxford corresponding authors in the majority of SAGE hybrid (SAGE Choice) journals, including the IMechE Journal Collection and the Royal Society of Medicine Collection. Some hybrid titles are excluded.
There is a 20% discount in their fully gold open access titles.
View the list of participating journals and author instructions
Society for Neuroscience
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors unlimited open access publishing for all article types in the Journal of Neuroscience.
Springer Nature
This deal entitles University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish fully open access in most hybrid Springer, Nature and Palgrave journal titles. Eligible articles published in full gold journals are eligible for a 15% discount.
Taylor and Francis
This deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles in hybrid ‘Open Select’ journals, fully OA, F1000 Research and Routledge Open Research.
Find out more details about this deal
Thieme
This Jisc publisher deal agreement allows unlimited hybrid journal open access publishing of research articles for University of Oxford corresponding authors in selected journals.
Pure open access journals are not included in the agreement.
Wiley
This Jisc publisher deal allows University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish primary research and review articles open access at no extra cost in all Wiley journals. This means that the agreement covers article processing charges for both hybrid (subscription) and fully open access journals.
Lists of participating journals (fully open access and hybrid OnlineOpen) and author instructions can be found on the
Wiley open access agreement for Jisc institutions
webpage.
Wolters Kluwer (Health) / Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins
This deal allows all University of Oxford corresponding authors to publish research articles, reviews and conference papers in selected hybrid journals.
Please note: This agreement does
not
cover
Wolters Kluwer (Law) journals.
Other publisher deals
Use the table to find other publisher deals, such as discount schemes for open access.
Last updated: 1 September 2025
Publisher
Deal details
Edinburgh University Press (EUP)
Edinburgh University Press journals allow authors to deposit the author accepted manuscript version of their article in their institutional repository (i.e. ORA) with no embargo. This green open access route is compliant with funder policies including
UKRI
.
Authors are permitted to post their accepted manuscript with a Creative Commons user licence (CC BY licence by default or CC BY-ND on agreement by the funder). The posting should include a prominent statement that the article has been accepted for publication by Edinburgh University Press in the journal, together with a link to the EUP website for the journal.
For full details, see EUP’s page
Archiving and social sharing
.
Please note: authors may deposit the accepted manuscript version in a non-commercial disciplinary repository one year after publication. This deposit would not be compliant with funders who require zero embargo.
Frontiers
The University of Oxford has signed a centralised invoicing arrangement with Frontiers. The arrangement offers a 10% discount on open access fees for eligible papers. To be eligible, authors must be affiliated with the University of Oxford.
To submit your article under this agreement, please select ‘University of Oxford’ as the payer in the invoice section when submitting your article.  Frontiers will then verify your eligibility with the University of Oxford and, if confirmed, the article processing charge (APC) will be paid by the University upon acceptance.
Please note: the institution only has funding to cover the full open accss charge for WT, CRUK, BHF and UKRI funded authors. For those without, the remaining 90% would be the author's responsibility.
KOALA Mathematics and Computer Sciences
Oxford has signed up as a supporter of the KOALA project, an initiative of several German academic institutions, to provide diamond open access to 6 journals:
Electronic Journal of Qualitative Theory of Differential Equations
SMAI Journal of Computational Mathematics
Logical Methods in Computer Science
Australasian Journal of Combinatorics
TheoretiCS
Epijournal de Géométrie Algébrique
For further information on the scheme, visit the
KOALA website
Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute (MDPI)
The scheme entitles authors from participating institutions to a 20% discount on APCs for all accepted articles.
Peer Community Journal
Peer Community Journal
is a diamond open access journal edited by the non-commercial
Peer Community in (PCI) organisation
. It publishes articles evaluated and recommended by PCI, without further peer review at no cost for authors and readers. This journal currently deals with all fields of evolutionary biology, ecology, zoology, neuroscience, palaeontology, animal science, archaeology, genomics, mathematical and computational biology, network science, forest and wood science, biotic interactions, ecotoxicology and environmental chemistry.
Peer Community Journal
also publishes articles based on registered reports dealing with all physical sciences, life sciences, social sciences and humanities.
Learn more about PCJ on their website.
Science Advances (AAAS)
10% discount for open access journal
Science Advances
.
When completing the ‘author charge’, click ‘Apply Discounts’
Under ‘Affiliation discount,’ enter ‘The University of Oxford’.
SciPost
Oxford University has signed up as a supporter of SciPost, a non-profit foundation that has developed and maintains a diamond open access journal infrastructure. SciPost publishes several journals and allows academic teams to use the infrastructure to run their own journal.
Learn more about SciPost on their website
.
SCOAP3
SCOAP is a consortium of libraries, funders and research organisations enabling researchers to publish open access for ‘free’ in certain High-Energy Physics journals including the Journal of High Energy Physics. It is hosted by CERN and Oxford University is one of the contributing UK institutions.
Subscription journals are converted to open access through re-direction of subscription funds. Authors of High-Energy Physics articles in participating journals get immediate open access at no direct cost.
View a list of the journals and publishers covered
.
White Rose University Press
This agreement allows Oxford-affiliated corresponding authors to publish research articles in the following diamond journals:
The Undergraduate Journal of Politics and International Relations
The Journal of African Cultural Heritage Studies
Writing Chinese: A Journal of Contemporary Sinophone Literature
Visit
WRUP’s website
for more information.
Further information
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS)
Oxford is not currently a signatory to the PNAS agreement via Jisc. Oxford-affiliated authors are advised to take the following steps:
If acknowledging UKRI research funding contact
pnaswaiverrequests@nas.edu
to request a fee waiver.
If acknowledging other funding e.g. Wellcome, or unfunded, use our Open Access Policy for funder/REEF compliance and deposit into ORA. Please contact
openaccess@bodeian.ox.ac.uk
for any queries.
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
Oxford has signed a ‘read and green’ deal with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. This enables Oxford corresponding and co-authors to self-archive their Author Accepted Manuscripts, that were submitted to any subscription IEEE journals or conference proceedings, with no embargo.
For fully open access titles, funded authors can apply for an article processing charge (APC) to be paid from the funder block grants or via other funder-specific routes.
If you have any questions about publishing with IEEE, please
contact us
.
Discounts for learned societies
If you are a member of a learned society you may be entitled to discount on article processing charges.
For example, the American Chemical Society (ACS) has individual member and institutional discounts on its open access ('AuthorChoice') fees. The University subscribes to the ACS 'All Publications' package, so Oxford-affiliated authors could benefit from both.
Contact us
If you have any questions about specific journal titles, eligibility or agreement terms, contact the Open Access Payments team:
oapayments@bodleian.ox.ac.uk
.
powered by
oxford mosaic
List of site pages